# Investigating Relationship Between Police Expenditure and Solved Crime Rate
This repository will be for the analysis between police expenditure for each division and their specific rate of solving crimes. The aim of this project is to use data to understand the "Defund the police" movement and see if the proponents' opinions have any merit. 

# Project Description
My application will download data from opendatatoronto package, specifically the police expenditure data set and reported crimes data set. I then created graphs and compared/contrasted the trends of each division's efficiency using ggplot 2. I also used janitor to clean my data, knitr to create graphs, scales to make my graphs presentable, and tidyverse for other miscellaneous functions. One of the biggest challenges I faced when analyzing the data sets was when I tried to collapse some of the column values, because they are unnecessary for my analysis. In addition, another challenge was when I tried to mutate the "gross_expenditure_final" column into a new numeric column; I have to learn how to use the "gsub()" function to remove the "," and "$". Hopefully, people can use this project as a stepping stone in the future and do a further analysis on the effectiveness of community initiatives when given a higher budget. Due to time limitation, my analysis stopped at only using two data sets, but it is always better if people can use more data sets and cross reference evidence in the future.

# How to Run this/What Do I Need?
No special installation is needed, as long as you can load in opendatatoronto, tidyverse, janitor, knitr, and scales, you are good to go.
 